# MIRO report for the  ontology
We here report the documentation for the [Semantic Salah Ontology](https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticSalah/blob/main/SemanticSalahOntology.owl) according to the guidelines available in [1].

## A. Basics
1. **Ontology name (MUST)**
Semantic Salah Ontology , version 1.0.1

2. **Ontology owner (MUST)**
[Amna Kamran](https://github.com/A-Kamran)

3. **Ontology license (MUST)**
[CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

4. **Ontology URL (MUST)**
<https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticSalah/blob/main/SemanticSalahOntology.owl)>

5. **Ontology repository (MUST)**
<https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticSalah>

6. **Methodological framework (MUST)**
The Semantic Salah Ontology is a formal knowledge model designed to encapsulate the components of Salah, ranging from the foundational prayer units (rakahs) to the temporal considerations governing the timing of Salah.

## B. Motivation
1. **Need (MUST)**
The application of semantic web or open data in the Islamic knowledge domain is limited. 

2. **Competition (MUST)**
So far, no ontologies are available representing Salah.

3. **Target audience (MUST)**
Muslims

## C. Scope, requirements, development community
1. **Scope and coverage (MUST)**
The SemanticSalah ontology offers a detailed and structured framework for representing the intricacies of Salah, including its practices, rounds (Rakahs), postures, and rules for timeliness, completion, and correctness, facilitating comprehensive modeling and analysis of Salah activities.

2. **Development community (MUST)**
 (IKnex),
 National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences (NUCES-FAST), Islamabad, Pakistan

3. **Communication (MUST)** [Issues](https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticSalah/issues) on Github.

## D. Knowledge acquisition
1. **Knowledge acquisition method (MUST)**
Analysis of the available literature on Semantic Web, ontologies, Human Activity Recognition, and Islamic Knowledge representation. In particular, how to represent Salah and the components related to the Prayer Activity.

2. **Source knowledge location (SHOULD)** 

3. **Content Selection (SHOULD)** 
Salah Activity data  from smartwatch application

## E. Ontology content
1. **Knowledge representation language (MUST)**
OWL 2 generated by Protégé v5.5.0; however, the ontology is at this stage only descriptive, and
it uses a reduced subset of OWL 2 capabilities, being the Description Logic ALCRIF(D).
Description Logic and Semantic Web rule Language for modelling activity recognition of Salah.

3. **Development environment (OPTIONAL)**
Protégé v5.5.0.
OWLReady2  (Python Library for OWL used to build, manipulate and store the ontology in various supported formats)

4. **Ontology metrics (SHOULD)**
Number of classes: 57; 
Number of object properties: 22; 
Number of data properties: 12;
Individuals: 177.

5. **Incorporation of other ontologies (MUST)**
[DCTerms](<http://purl.org/dc/terms>), [schema](<http://schema.org>), [dbpedia](<hhtp://dbpedia.org>)

6. **Entity naming convention (MUST)** 
Entities follows the CamelCase notation. Both datatype and object properties are named as verb senses with mixedCase notation.

7. **Identifier generation policy (MUST)**
Identifiers of the instances must be generated by the application

8. **Identity metadata policy (MUST)**
All entities have an dcterms:description natural language explanation

9. **Upper ontology (MUST)** 
See point E.4.

10. **Ontology relationships (MUST)**
22 object properties; 12 datatype properties.

11. **Axiom pattern (MUST)**
<!-- 
158 axioms included (of which 68 logical axioms, 40 declaration axioms, 12 SubClassOf, 6 EquivalentClasses, 1 DisjointClasses, 6 hidden GCI, 5 InverseObjectProperties, 2 FunctionalObjectProperties, 1 Inverse Functional, 4 Asymmetric Object Properties, 4 Irreflexive, 11 ObjectPropertyDomain and Range, 3 Functional DataProperty, 4 DP domain and range, 50 annotation assertions)
 -->

11. **Deferencable URI (OPTIONAL)** 
It is possible to use deferencable URIs, but no assumption on this is made in the ontology.

## F. Managing change
1. **Sustainability plan (MUST)**
Some research projects are being prepared to leverage the ontology.

2. **Entity deprecation strategy (MUST)**
Deprecated classes will be labelled as obsolete with a proper annotation property.

3. **Versioning policy (MUST)**
The Semantic Hadith ontology adopts sequence-based identifiers for its versions with a major number and a minor number, separated by a dot. A novel release featuring only small changes will cause a switch of the minor number, while relevant and/or structural changes affects also the major number.

## G. Quality assurance
1. **Testing (MUST)**
Tests have been made by checking competency questions in the paper. The Competency Questions with their Sparql Queries and results are available [here](https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticSalah/blob/main/CompetencyQuestionsAndSPARQLQueries.md).

2. **Evaluation (MUST)**
Metrics, and discussions over Semantic Salah ontology evaluation have been discussed in the paper.

3. **Examples of use (MUST)**
The study's outcomes are practically implemented through the \textit{SmartSalahApp}, which offers users personalised feedback on the quality, completeness, and correctness of their Salah practices. This application aims to empower users with real-time insights and guidance.

4. **Institutional endorsement (OPTIONAL)**
None

5. **Evidence of use (MUST)**
The ontology is still new, but we plan to use it in forthcoming projects.

## References
[1] Matentzoglu, N., Malone, J., Mungall, C., & Stevens, R. (2018). MIRO: guidelines for minimum information for the reporting of an ontology. _Journal of biomedical semantics, 9_(1), 6.
